<!-- omit in toc -->

# Pseudonymity PoC

WebIDs are a Semantic Web technology for decentralized digital identities,
aiming to empower users with an autonomous digital
existence where privacy and control are key.
Pseudonymity is an important privacy protection tool.
However, WebIDs are not entirely within the control of its user and rely on other parties (e.g., DNS registry).

As such, WebIDs pose difficulties in scenarios where pseudonymity is required.
In this demo paper, we present a pseudonymity WebID solution based on open Web standards, allowing a user to autonomously create and use a pseudonymous identity and prove the binding between its actual and pseudonymous identity when needed.
We present a PoC implementation leveraging DID Key to establish a pseudonymous identity and Verifiable Credentials to prove the binding between the actual and pseudonymous identities.
We demonstrate our solution through a job application use case where a user can remain pseudonymous during the job selection procedure and, upon selection, prove the binding with its actual identity.
Hence, by combining WebIDs, DIDs, and Verifiable Credentials, we allow users to establish a pseudonymous identity without relying on third parties.
For future work, we will focus on our solutions' security and privacy considerations to provide a qualitative evaluation.


This demonstrator consists of a PoC implementation for pseudonymity combining WebID and DID Key.
Concretely, the demonstrator code ([`src/demo-pseudonymity/index.ts`](src/demo-pseudonymity/index.ts)) simulates a [use case about pseudonymous job application](#use-case).
An example of the outputs generated by the demonstrator can be found in [`./pseudonymity-demo-output.json`](./pseudonymity-demo-output.json) and 
[`demo-output-readme`](demo-output-readme.md) (where the outputs are explained).


## Prerequisites

- Docker Compose

## Pseudonymity demo

This demo executes the use case explained [here](#use-case).

> Before running the demo,
make sure that Docker and Docker Compose are installed.

To install this package, run:

```bash
npm install
```

Then, you can execute the demo:

```bash
npm run demo
```

During execution, intermediary outputs are written to the console output.
Upon completion, these raw outputs can be found in [`./pseudonymity-demo-output.json`](./pseudonymity-demo-output.json).
In [`demo-output-readme`](demo-output-readme.md), these outputs are explained.


## Use case

The use case is as follows:

> Alice's government
has been a key player in the transformation to a new and user-centric data economy,
providing its citizens with their own Solid Pod on which they can securely store and share their personal data such as their payslips, bills, diplomas, notary documents, etc.
Alice (the holder) is interested in a particular job.
However, the job is known to suffer from a bias towards men.
The recruiter (the verifier) is aware of the bias and, therefore, does not require any other verifiable information than the applicant’s diploma.
However, Alice does not want to apply using her public WebID,
as the identifier still allows for discovering more information than she would like to.
Hence, to reduce any bias in the selection procedure, Alice wants to apply for a job pseudonymously.
> This allows Alice to hide her real identity up until the HR department closes the job application round.
When Alice’s pseudonymous identity has been selected, she can then prove that her public identifier is bound to that pseudonymous identifier.


## License

This code is copyrighted by [Ghent University – imec](http://idlab.ugent.be/)
and released under the [MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
